Welcome back everyone to continue on our discussion of machine learning theory topics.
We're not going to discuss over fitting and under fitting in how you can recognize if this is occurring
in your own problems so we understand now the full process for supervised learning acquiring the data
clean the data performing that sort of train test split or a trained test validation split and then
training your model comparing its results on the validation data and then finally getting some performance
metric on your test data and then deploying your model to the real world.
What I want to do now is touch upon the important topics of over 50 and under fitting so overfishing
is when the model fits too much to the noise from the data.
And this often results in low error on training sets but high error on your test and validation sets
so let's actually take a look at what overfishing would look like.
For the example case of a really simple dataset where you just have one feature X and you're trying
to predict Y.
So here we have a bunch of training points and so there's some single feature X and at the end of the
day we want to build out a model that can predict Y so a good model would try to fit the general trend
of the actual data set here so we can see it appears that there's some sort of positive slope and it
looks like it levels off.
Later on.
So what would happen if the model over fit to this training data.
So when you actually overfished what's going to happen is you're actually going to fit too much to the
noise of the data.
So here we have what appears to be a really bad model.
But keep in mind that this model is technically hitting every single one of those training points.
So your error here is actually going to be extremely low.
And in this specific example your error is actually zero because your model is accounting for every
point in the training set.
So your error just on the training set is actually really low when you're over Finning.
So that's why it can be really deceptive and that's why we also need the validation and test sets in
order to understand whether or not we're overfishing because just the training data alone won't tell
us that information.
So what happens when you're overfishing is you're fitting too much to the noise of the data here.
And so if you were to get a new point and this would be a test or validation point if you're over fitting
that means you're getting low error on the training set.
But when you get a new test so that the model hasn't seen before you're going to get a much larger error
off your model.
Now let's think about under fitting under fitting is what a model does not capture the underlying trend
that the data and does not fit the data well enough kind of the opposite of overfishing and this results
in low variance by high bias and under fitting.
It's often the result of an excessively simple model so in that same situation if we were to have the
features x and the label y something that was under fitting would just not even be able to grab the
general trend.
So maybe it picks up on that first upward slope but doesn't really grasp the idea that this model should
eventually level off for that value of increasing X now this particular data set was really easy to
visualize.
We just had one feature X and one label y.
But how can we actually see under fitting and over fitting occur when dealing with multi-dimensional
datasets.
Well let's first imagine we train the model and then measured its error overtraining time.
So let's begin with a thought experiment.
Let's imagine we have what should be a good model.
Well as you can imagine a good model when it first encounters the training data it's going to have kind
of a large error because it hasn't actually seen this data before and has adjusted any internal parameters
to this data.
However as you train your model for more time on the training data you would expect the error to essentially
go down until it levels off and converges to some sort of minimum error.
So this is what a good model should look like.
And when we're specifically talking about neural networks this training time actually has a specific
word and depending if you pronounce it the American way which is epic or the British way epoch which
is the way I pronounce it essentially one epoch is passing the entirety of your training data one time
through your model.
So we can see here as we do multiple passes on the entire set of the training data.
Eventually our error will converge to some sort of minimum.
That's a good model but what would a bad model do.
A bad model.
If you train it for more and more time would get increasing error.
And that's not good because essentially your models not learning every time it goes through the train
data.
It's actually increase in the air.
So we have the expected behavior of a good model and the expected behavior of a bad model.
So how can we use this intuition that to understand what over fitting or under fitting would look like
during the training of a model so in thinking about overfishing and under fitting we want to keep in
mind the important relationship of model performance on the training set versus that test or validation
set so let's imagine we've split up our data into a training set and a test set and we're gonna color
them here.
So first we would see the performance on the training set.
And typically you're training set performance is going to decrease in error as you train it for more
epochs.
Next we check the performance on the test set and in an ideal situation you'll get similar behavior.
The test set as you train for more epochs on the training data then your error on the test set will
also decrease.
So it should look the same.
That's the ideal situation so ideally the model perform well on both with similar behavior but what
would happen if we were to over fit on the training data.
So recall from that simple example of just that single feature X and that label y if we were over fitting
on that data we actually still get really good performance on our training data.
However once we introduce that new test point or that new validation point that's where we start to
see a large error occur.
So that means we will start to perform poorly on new test data.
If we were actually over fitting so often you'll see something like this occur where we have that red
line as our training set and then that blue line as our test or validation set.
And essentially this indicates that we're overfishing.
So this is a good indication of training too much on that training dataset and you begin to overfished.
You've done too many passes on that training set and now your model can't generalize to data.
It hasn't seen before.
It's only been able to predict now really well only on data it's seen.
So what we want to do is want to make sure we don't train too much on that specific training set so
we can still generalize to new test or validation data and what we can do is we can plot out this behavior
on the training set versus the test set and then you should look to have a cutoff point on that training
time.
So as you can see the error on the test set start to increase.
That's a good indication that that's where over fitting on the training data would begin.
So you want to kind of choose that cutoff point and it's not always as clear as this where essentially
the Intersect.
But the main idea being if you see an increase in error on that test set as the training error is still
going down that's a good indication that you should stop training there.
And this is an idea I will touch upon later on in the course so as I mentioned we'll check on this idea
again or actually beginning creating models.
For now let's just go ahead and be aware of this possible issue and keep it in the back of our minds
when we're actually creating and training our models.
OK thanks.
And I'll see you at the next lecture.